---
title: Criticisms of "Do Fans of Cartoon Porn Stars Hate (Real) Women?"
date: 2021-08-25T19:19:00.000Z
tags:
- anime
- letter
- feminism
- misogony
- projekt melody
---
<!-- # Criticisms of "Do Fans of Cartoon Porn Stars Hate (Real) Women?" -->

This was originally an email sent to [Emma Grey Ellis](https://www.wired.com/author/emma-grey-ellis) of WIRED about her February 2020 opinion piece "Do Fans of Cartoon Porn Stars Hate (Real) Women?" ([read it on the Wayback machine](https://web.archive.org/web/*/https://www.wired.com/story/projekt-melody-anime-porn-stars/)) I originally came across it while casually reading [Melody's Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Projekt_Melody#Reception). The subject of the article is about VTuber [Projekt Melody](https://twitter.com/ProjektMelody) and her possibly partially misogynistic fanbase. I felt the article was overly negative, painted Melody and her fans in a bad light (I'm a member of the Science Team, myself), and didn't care about its responsibility of being one of the mainstream's first introductions, and so I wrote her an email; it's included at the footer of the article. Sadly, it seems that her WIRED email `Emma_Ellis@wired.com` no longer works and WIRED's editor still hasn't forwarded it to her, but I was pretty proud of what I wrote, so I'll put it here.

---

To refresh your memory:
https://www.wired.com/story/projekt-melody-anime-porn-stars/
DISCLAIMER: I am male, I am left-leaning, I do not use 4chan, and I am
a fan of Projekt Melody, even though I don't watch her explicit
streams. I still believe the following points are valid despite my
biases.

---

* You seem to be overly critical of Melody simply because presents
herself as real despite her fictitiousness:

> Though her creators are loath to admit it, the Melody character is, of course, a fiction.

> and I was given no other option, despite requests to speak to an actual human

> The sex part is obvious, but she is also more insistent about her real fakeness, her digital sentience.

Even though Damon Albarn and Jamie Hewett have always been available
for comment since the beginning of their virtual band Gorillaz,
they've always tried to maintain the illusion of the band's fictional
members being in our world through having said characters interact
with real people through talk shows, interviews, and Reddit AMAs;
having their real-life collaborators become part of the band's
storyline; and hiding the live band during their early tours. Fans and
music critics have applauded Albarn and Hewett for going out of their
way to make the Gorillaz feel like they're here; if you were to write
an article about the band tomorrow, would you share the same
criticisms as you did with Melody?

* You also seem to be critical of Melody's creator taking a step back
from participating online and letting their creation speak for them:

> After making a few scant comments, Digitrevx seems to be developing a strategy of never really starting. For all the futurism of their products, the people behind the virtual avatars seem to deliberately eschew digital norms.

You never really explain why this irks you nor why this is even a bad
thing? Is it wrong that a group of animated characters represent M&M's
and Mars Inc. as a whole instead of Grant F. Reid?

* Lastly, you are overly critical of animated pornography and the
people using it for sexual entertainment instead of live-action:

> It’s transgressive

> features girls with tails and hooves having sex with tentacle monsters

> It’s also hypersexualized

> For an isolated man or teenage boy, especially one who feels rejected by and unattractive to living women, hentai is a thrill.

> Some of those men seem to harbor such ill-will toward women that they’d rather masturbate to a glitchy cartoon than try to talk to one.

Is live-action pornography incapable of being transgressive,
fantastical, or hypersexualized? I would argue that it is the first
and latter 90% of the time and the second about 30-40% of the time. If
then, animated pornography isn't all that different from the norm,
what is the point? To paint it in a worse light? That may not be your
intention, but it certainly comes across that way. I get the feeling
that you don't like porn in general, and I would understand why you
for the reasons you silently give in your piece. If you answer one
question in this email, answer this one: Do you wish porn didn't
exist? If porn could never go away, what about it would you want to
change? Finally, your views surrounding porn very much come from a
heterosexual perspective; do your opinions on porn and how it is a
"product of the male gaze" still apply to lesbian and especially gay
porn?

I know that there are people who genuinely do use porn in general as a
way to cope with their inability to make meaningful relationships with
other people and that it is likely very unhealthy. But, you write in
such a way that even though you do leave constantly leave disclaimers
through the use of adjectives, "some," and "nobody," you paint all
fans of Projekt Melody as male, socially isolated freaks of nature
that voted for Trump in 2016 and might shoot up your son's school
someday; I believe that does Melody and the community she's trying to
cultivate a disservice.

---

I get the vibe that this is an opinion piece, even though it isn't
labeled as such (your site *does* have an "Opinion" topic:
https://www.wired.com/tag/opinion/); this article definitely is the
product of a left-leaning female who harshly dislikes porn. What I'm
disappointed in is that you don't openly show and explain your biases
to the reader, which would make your writing significantly less
negative and make it seem like you hate that Melody even exists. As
Wired is a mainstream publication, this very much could've been a
reader's first introduction to the VTuber community, and because of
how you wrote your article, likely their last. I just feel as if you
used the creation of something legitimately interesting to rattle off
about how pornography sucks and how it's rotting the minds of our
youth, turning them into mass murderers. I hope that when you write an
opinion piece again for Wired, you take into account your biases,
openly share them with your reader, take the opportunity to question
them, and play devil's advocate a little bit. I think there's a time
and place for an über-negative article, but I feel it was a bit unnecessary
for this topic. I look forward to a possible reply.

From one writer to another,

Kyle Williams